İzmir Matematik Günleri – II – Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Fen Fakültesi Matematik Bölümü İçeriğe atla Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Fen Fakültesi Matematik Bölümü Menü Ana sayfa Bölüm Genel Tanıtım Bölüm Yönetimi Anabilim Dalları Komisyonlar Personel Akademik Personel Eğitim Akademik Takvim Ders Programı Lisansüstü Ders Kataloğu Güncel Lisans Yüksek Lisans Doktora Arşiv Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü Kütüphane Yandal Programı Aday Öğrenciler Araştırma Aritmetik Grubu Cebir Grubu Geometri Grubu Topoloji Grubu Matematiksel Fizik Seminerleri İletişim English İzmir Matematik Günleri – II 14 Haziran 2019 14 Haziran 2019 Yazarı: cem çelik İzmir Matematik Günleri – II 12-13 Eylül 2019 İMG 2019 Çalıştay web sayfası: http://img.deu.edu.tr/ İzmir
 Matematik Günlerinin iki temel hedefinden biri yüksek lisans / doktora 
öğrencilerinin ve genç araştırmacıların çalışmalarını, fikirlerini ve 
tecrübelerini paylaşacakları, araştırma ve mentor ağları kurabilecekleri
 bir platform oluşturmaktır. Bir diğer hedefi ise lisans öğrencilerini, 
Matematik alanında akademik kariyer yapmak için cesaretlendirmektir. Çalıştay
 iki farklı oturumdan oluşacaktır. Sabah oturumlarında davetli 
konuşmacılar kendi çalışma alanlarını tanıtan kolokyum konuşmaları 
vereceklerdir. Öğleden sonra oturumları ise yüksek lisans / doktora 
öğrencilerinin ve genç araştırmacıların konuşmalarına ayrılmıştır. 
Ayrıca DEÜ Matematik Bölümündeki yüksek lisans / doktora programlarını 
tanıtan bir bilgilendirici panel yapılacaktır. Sunum dilleri İngilizce veya Türkçe’dir. Konuşmacı tercihini başvuru sürecinde kesin olarak belirtmelidir. Konuşma ve poster özetleri İngilizce olmalıdır. Davetli Konuşmacılar Yusuf Civan ( Süleyman Demirel Üniversitesi ) Başlık:  A short tour in combinatorics Özet: This
 is an invitatory talk to a short trip through the jungle of 
combinatorics, one of the fascinating fields of modern mathematics. If 
time permits, we plan to visit various sites in the jungle, including 
those from combinatorial number theory to discrete geometry, graph 
theory to combinatorial commutative algebra, etc. Lastly, after showing 
our respect to the founder king “Paul Erdös” of the jungle, we review 
the current status of some of his favorite open problems. Konstantinos Kalimeris ( Cambridge Üniversitesi ) Başlık: Water waves – Two asymptotic approaches Özet: TBA Müge Kanuni Er ( Düzce Üniversitesi ) Başlık: Mad Vet… Özet: How
 does a recreational problem “Mad Vet” links to interesting and 
interdisciplinary mathematical research “Leavitt path algebras” in 
algebra and “Graph C*-algebras” in analysis. We
 will give a survey of the last 15 years of research done in a 
particular example of non-commutative rings flourishing from the fact 
that free modules over some non-commutative rings can have two bases 
with different cardinality.   Surprisingly enough not only 
non-commutative ring theorists, but also C*-algebraists gather together 
to advance the work done. The interplay between
 the topics stimulate interest and many proof techniques and tools are 
used from symbolic dynamics, ergodic theory, homology, K-theory and 
functional analysis. Many papers have been published on this structure, so called Leavitt path algebras, which is constructed on a directed graph. Haydar Göral ( Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi ) Başlık: Arithmetic Progressions Özet: A
 sequence whose consecutive terms have the same difference is called an 
arithmetic progression. For example, even integers form an infinite 
arithmetic progression. An arithmetic progression can also be finite. 
For instance, 5, 9, 13, 17 is an arithmetic progression of length 4. 
Finding long arithmetic progressions in certain subsets of integers is 
at the centre of mathematics in the last century. In his seminal work, 
Szemerédi (1975) proved that if A is a subset of positive integers with 
positive upper density, then A contains arbitrarily long arithmetic 
progressions. With this result, Szemerédi proved the long standing 
conjecture of Erdős and Turan. Another recent remarkable result was 
obtained by Green and Tao in 2005: The set of prime numbers contains 
arbitrarily long arithmetic progressions. In this talk, we will survey 
these results and some ideas behind them. Kategoriler çalıştay Yazı dolaşımı İzo-artin ve İzo-Noether Modülleri Üzerine – 2 2019-2020 Güz Dönemi Lisansüstü Eğitim Başvuruları Posta adresi: Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Tınaztepe Yerleşkesi, FenFakültesi Matematik Bölümü 35390 Buca/İzmir e-posta: matematik.fen@deu.edu.tr    Telefon: +90 232 301 85 08    Fax: +90 232 453 41 88 © 2021 Dokuz Eylül Üniversitesi Fen Fakültesi Matematik Bölümü • Powered by GeneratePress Başa dön